You've wrapped your head around the console.
The fact that we're writing code in the text editor and running it on the browser, it's awesome.
But now let me ask you a bit of a trick question, something that isn't as intuitive as you might first
think.
Let's say in our body, here is just another simple HTML document,
let's just say we've got a paragraph.
Called "Hello World".
And then lets start writing JavaScript.
And in JavaScript, we've got two commands. (1) document.write().
And remember what the document was?
Well, the document is your web page. So all we're telling JavaScript to do here, is what? Correct, its to write the
string called "I expect this to be executed first", onto your webpage.
Let's execute then (2) an alert.
Remember what I said before that when the browser parses your webpage, it goes from top to bottom.
So what would you expect to happen here?
Well, intuitively I would expect the document.write() to be executed first, so we should see this on
the screen first.
As a matter of fact, I would expect to see the paragraph "Hello World" come first, then I'd expect this to be
displayed beneath it,
and only then would I expect the alert to show up on the screen.
But, programming can be weird.
Let's have a look at what happens.
Let's Go Live.
Ohhhhhh.
Can you see what's just happened?
There is nothing shown on the browser, but this alert has shown up! But we expected this to be executed
second, not first, what's going on?
Well, you can see when we click OK,
here is what we expected to happen first.
Why does this happen? You can clearly see if we go back to the code,
this alert is written last, but it seems to be executed first.
Why is that?
The simple answer is that most modern web browsers are set up such that
when they encounter JavaScript, they pause the rendering of the remaining HTML content.
So what's happened is that although the browser does get to document.write first, and it parses
that first, when it hits a JavaScript function, the alert() function, it actually pauses everything else
and it executes that first.
That's exactly why we see it first, even though we've written it second. So there are all these little
nuances that you just need to keep in mind with JavaScript, but it is fun, it's awesome.
And intuitively, these things can be a little weird sometimes.
But in most cases, you know, it does work as we would expect.
Let's move on.